- [Instructor] Once you become comfortable
with continuous delivery,
you might decide to automate production deployments.
To switch to continuous deployment,
we'll need to extend the automation a bit in the script
for our deployment pipeline.
So let's get started.
The first thing that we'll need to do,
is copy the stage that deploys our application
to the staging environment.
I'm going to go ahead and I'll place it here,
as the last stage within our pipeline.
Once it's in place,
I'm going to then switch its name over to,
Deploy to Production.
All right.
Now it's just going to take a few tweaks
to automate our production deployments.
In this first step,
which uses git to pull the manifests
from the main branch into the workspace,
we'll need to change the branch that it pulls from.
Instead,
we're going to pull from the release branch
and those are the manifests
that will get applied on our production cluster.
Now you'll recall,
when we promoted our changes to production manually,
all we did was merge the main branch
into the release branch,
and that's all we need to do here.
We're just going to automate it.
So let's go ahead,
and we'll remove this step that uses customize.
And then we're going to switch this command,
which performs a commit over to perform a merge.
So we'll say, git merge main.
And this will cause the changes in the main branch,
which are currently applied to the staging environment,
to be merged into the release branch
where Argo CD will build the production overlay
and apply the changes to the production cluster.
Okay.
There's one last thing.
Here, you can see
that we're pushing the changes to the main branch to GitHub.
Instead,
we need to push the changes in the release branch to GitHub.
Okay.
Now everything's in place
to automate our production deployments.
I have to point out one more thing here though.
Before we would push to production,
we should do a lot of testing,
and verification of these changes
to make sure they're production worthy.
But we're focused on the mechanics of the pipeline,
so we're going to head over to the terminal,
and here, I'm going to go ahead and stage these changes
inside the deploy repo.
Then I'll make a commit.
We can say that we're adding continuous deployment.
Then we'll push those changes over to GitHub.
And that will cause Jenkins to pick them up.
And our deployment pipeline
will have the final stage within it
that automates the deployment to production.
All right.
Now that that's being put in place,
let's go make a change to our application
so that we can run it through our pipeline.
So back in Eclipse,
you'll notice I have three other files open.
These are part of the hotel-webapp project,
and we've seen the bookings.html file before,
but there's also two other pages, guests and rooms.
And these provide information
about the different guests staying at the hotel
and the rooms that are available.
We're going to update our bookings.html page
to add links to these pages within its menu.
You can see that here.
Let's just go ahead and we'll add in the links.
And then these pages will be available
within the web application.
Now that we've made the updates to our app,
let's head over to the terminal,
and we can commit them to the hotel-webapp repository.
Once again, I'll stage our changes,
then I'll create the commit.
I'll say we're updating the nav links.
We'll go ahead and push these changes over to GitHub,
to trigger our pipeline.
All right.
Now let's navigate to Jenkins,
so that we can watch the pipeline execute.
Okay.
Jenkins is queuing up the build.
So let's head into the hotel-webapp pipeline.
And we can see it's already executing.
And it's getting ready to trigger the deploy pipeline.
Let's head over there,
and we can watch the automated deployments.
Okay.
It just triggered the production deployments.
Let's wait a few minutes,
and then we'll check the status of our apps.
All right.
Let's see if the changes were deployed
to the staging environment.
Okay.
There, we can see the links to the new pages
and we can hit them,
which we'll call back to the different microservices
that provide the information displayed on the page.
Now, let's see,
how the automated deployment to production is doing
There we see the links,
and it looks like the release
has been performed to production.
So now we've built an end-to-end delivery pipeline
for a modern Java application
that is architected to use microservices.
The mechanics of our delivery process are now automated,
and we can consistently and safely repeat them.
When developing software this is a game changer
that will accelerate the pace and tempo of your project,
your team, and your organization.